README.md, before:

# ActiveAdmin Searchable Select

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/activeadmin-searchable_select.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/activeadmin-searchable_select)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codevise/activeadmin-searchable_select.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codevise/activeadmin-searchable_select)

Searchable select boxes (via [Select2](https://select2.org/)) for
ActiveAdmin forms and filters. Extends the ActiveAdmin resource DSL to
allow defining JSON endpoints to fetch options from asynchronously.

## Installation

Add `activeadmin-searchable_select` to your Gemfile:

```ruby
   gem 'activeadmin-searchable_select
```

Import stylesheets and require javascripts:

```scss
// active_admin.css.scss
@import "active_admin/searchable_select";
```

```coffee
# active_admin.js.coffee
#= require active_admin/searchable_select
```

## Usage

### Making Select Boxes Searchable

To add search functionality to a select box, use the
`:searchable_select` input type:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
       f.input(:category, as: :searchable_select)
     end
   end
```

This also works for filters:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     filter(:category, as: :searchable_select)
   end
```

### Fetching Options via Ajax

For large collections, rendering the whole set of options can be to
expensive. Use the `ajax` option to fetch a set of matching options
once the user begins to type:

```ruby

   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     filter(:category,
            as: :searchable_select,
            ajax: true)
   end
```

If the input attribute corresponds to an ActiveAdmin resource, it is
expected to provide the JSON endpoint that provides the options. Use
the `searchable_select_options` method to define the required
collection action:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

By default, `scope` needs to be a Ransack enabled ActiveRecord
collection proxy determining which options are available. The
attribute given by `text_attribute` will be used to get a display name
for each record. Via Ransack, it is also used to filter by search
term. Limiting result set size is handled automatically.

You can customize the display text:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name,
                               display_text: ->(record) { "Category: #{record.name}" } )
   end
```

Note that `text_attribute` is still required to perform filtering via
Ransack. You can pass the `filter` option, to specify your own
filtering strategy:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name,
                               filter: lambda |term, scope|
                                 scope.ransack(name_cont_all: term.split(' ')).result
                               end)
   end
```

`scope` can also be a lambda which is evaluated in the context of the
collection action defined by the helper:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: -> { Category.allowed_for(current_user) },
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

If the input attribute is set on the form's object, ajax based
searchable selects will automatically render a single option to ensure
the selected item is displayed correctly even before options have been
loaded asynchronously.

#### Specifying the Options Endpoint Resource

If the resource that provides the options endpoint cannot be guessed
based on the input attribute name, you can pass an object with a
`resource` key as `ajax` option:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
       f.input(:additional_category,
               as: :searchable_select,
               ajax: { resource: Category })
     end
   end
```

#### Multiple Options Endpoints per Resource

A single ActiveAdmin resource can define multiple options endpoints:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(name: :favorites,
                               scope: Category.favorites,
                               text_attribute: :name)

     searchable_select_options(name: :recent,
                               scope: Category.recent,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

To specify which collection to use, pass an object with a
`collection_name` key as `ajax` option:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
        f.input(:category,
                as: :searchable_select,
                ajax: { collection_name: :favorites })
     end
   end
```

#### Querying Multiple Attributes

ActiveAdmin Searchable Select querying is performed by Ransack. As such, you can
build your query in a way that it can query multiple attributes at once.

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register User do
     searchable_select_options(scope: User.all,
                               text_attribute: :username,
                               filter: lambda do |term, scope|
                                 scope.ransack(email_or_username_cont: term).result
                               end)
   end
```

In this example, the `all` scope will query `email OR username`.

#### Passing Parameters

You can pass additional parameters to the options endpoint:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
        f.input(:category,
                as: :searchable_select,
                ajax: {
                  params: {
                    some: 'value'
                  }
                })
     end
   end
```

The lambda passed as `scope` can receive those parameters as first
argument:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: lambda do |params|
                                 Category.find_all_by_some(params[:some])
                               end,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

#### Inlining Ajax Options in Feature Tests

When writing UI driven feature specs (i.e. with Capybara),
asynchronous loading of select options can increase test
complexity. `activeadmin-searchable_select` provides an option to
render all available options just like a normal select input while
still exercsing the same code paths including `scope` and
`text_attribute` handling.

For example with RSpec/Capybara, simply set `inline_ajax_options` true
for feature specs:

```ruby
  RSpec.configure do |config|
    config.before(:each) do |example|
      ActiveAdmin::Select2.inline_ajax_options = (example.metadata[:type] == :feature)
    end
  end

```

## Development

To run the tests install bundled gems and invoke RSpec:

```
$ bundle
$ bundle exec rspec
```

The test suite can be run against different versions of Rails and
Active Admin (see `Appraisals` file):

```
$ appraisal install
$ appraisal rspec
```

Please make sure changes conform with the styleguide:

```
$ bundle exec rubocop
```

## Acknowledgements

Based on
[mfairburn/activeadmin-select2](https://github.com/mfairburn/activeadmin-select2).

Commit message:

Update the README with info about multi-selects

README.md, after:

# ActiveAdmin Searchable Select

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/activeadmin-searchable_select.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/activeadmin-searchable_select)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codevise/activeadmin-searchable_select.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codevise/activeadmin-searchable_select)

Searchable select boxes (via [Select2](https://select2.org/)) for
ActiveAdmin forms and filters. Extends the ActiveAdmin resource DSL to
allow defining JSON endpoints to fetch options from asynchronously.

## Installation

Add `activeadmin-searchable_select` to your Gemfile:

```ruby
   gem 'activeadmin-searchable_select
```

Import stylesheets and require javascripts:

```scss
// active_admin.css.scss
@import "active_admin/searchable_select";
```

```coffee
# active_admin.js.coffee
#= require active_admin/searchable_select
```

## Usage

### Making Select Boxes Searchable

To add search functionality to a select box, use the
`:searchable_select` input type:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
       f.input(:category, as: :searchable_select)
     end
   end
```

This also works for filters:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     filter(:category, as: :searchable_select)
   end
```

By default, you can only select one at a time for a filter. You can
specify a multi-select with:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     filter(:category, as: :searchable_select, multiple: true)
   end
```

### Fetching Options via Ajax

For large collections, rendering the whole set of options can be to
expensive. Use the `ajax` option to fetch a set of matching options
once the user begins to type:

```ruby

   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     filter(:category,
            as: :searchable_select,
            ajax: true)
   end
```

If the input attribute corresponds to an ActiveAdmin resource, it is
expected to provide the JSON endpoint that provides the options. Use
the `searchable_select_options` method to define the required
collection action:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

By default, `scope` needs to be a Ransack enabled ActiveRecord
collection proxy determining which options are available. The
attribute given by `text_attribute` will be used to get a display name
for each record. Via Ransack, it is also used to filter by search
term. Limiting result set size is handled automatically.

You can customize the display text:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name,
                               display_text: ->(record) { "Category: #{record.name}" } )
   end
```

Note that `text_attribute` is still required to perform filtering via
Ransack. You can pass the `filter` option, to specify your own
filtering strategy:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: Category.all,
                               text_attribute: :name,
                               filter: lambda |term, scope|
                                 scope.ransack(name_cont_all: term.split(' ')).result
                               end)
   end
```

`scope` can also be a lambda which is evaluated in the context of the
collection action defined by the helper:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: -> { Category.allowed_for(current_user) },
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

If the input attribute is set on the form's object, ajax based
searchable selects will automatically render a single option to ensure
the selected item is displayed correctly even before options have been
loaded asynchronously.

#### Specifying the Options Endpoint Resource

If the resource that provides the options endpoint cannot be guessed
based on the input attribute name, you can pass an object with a
`resource` key as `ajax` option:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
       f.input(:additional_category,
               as: :searchable_select,
               ajax: { resource: Category })
     end
   end
```

#### Multiple Options Endpoints per Resource

A single ActiveAdmin resource can define multiple options endpoints:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(name: :favorites,
                               scope: Category.favorites,
                               text_attribute: :name)

     searchable_select_options(name: :recent,
                               scope: Category.recent,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

To specify which collection to use, pass an object with a
`collection_name` key as `ajax` option:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
        f.input(:category,
                as: :searchable_select,
                ajax: { collection_name: :favorites })
     end
   end
```

#### Querying Multiple Attributes

ActiveAdmin Searchable Select querying is performed by Ransack. As such, you can
build your query in a way that it can query multiple attributes at once.

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register User do
     searchable_select_options(scope: User.all,
                               text_attribute: :username,
                               filter: lambda do |term, scope|
                                 scope.ransack(email_or_username_cont: term).result
                               end)
   end
```

In this example, the `all` scope will query `email OR username`.

#### Passing Parameters

You can pass additional parameters to the options endpoint:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Product do
     form do |f|
        f.input(:category,
                as: :searchable_select,
                ajax: {
                  params: {
                    some: 'value'
                  }
                })
     end
   end
```

The lambda passed as `scope` can receive those parameters as first
argument:

```ruby
   ActiveAdmin.register Category do
     searchable_select_options(scope: lambda do |params|
                                 Category.find_all_by_some(params[:some])
                               end,
                               text_attribute: :name)
   end
```

#### Inlining Ajax Options in Feature Tests

When writing UI driven feature specs (i.e. with Capybara),
asynchronous loading of select options can increase test
complexity. `activeadmin-searchable_select` provides an option to
render all available options just like a normal select input while
still exercsing the same code paths including `scope` and
`text_attribute` handling.

For example with RSpec/Capybara, simply set `inline_ajax_options` true
for feature specs:

```ruby
  RSpec.configure do |config|
    config.before(:each) do |example|
      ActiveAdmin::Select2.inline_ajax_options = (example.metadata[:type] == :feature)
    end
  end

```

## Development

To run the tests install bundled gems and invoke RSpec:

```
$ bundle
$ bundle exec rspec
```

The test suite can be run against different versions of Rails and
Active Admin (see `Appraisals` file):

```
$ appraisal install
$ appraisal rspec
```

Please make sure changes conform with the styleguide:

```
$ bundle exec rubocop
```

## Acknowledgements

Based on
[mfairburn/activeadmin-select2](https://github.com/mfairburn/activeadmin-select2).
